SRVKE-802: Add KafkaSource SASL docs (#50877)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-kafka-sasl-source.adoc

_Simple Authentication and Security Layer_ (SASL) is used by Apache Kafka for authentication. If you use SASL authentication on your cluster, users must provide credentials to Knative for communicating with the Kafka cluster, otherwise events cannot be produced or consumed.

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster or dedicated administrator permissions on {product-title}.
* The {ServerlessOperatorName}, Knative Eventing, and the `KnativeKafka` CR are installed on your {product-title} cluster.
* You have created a project or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {product-title}.
* You have a username and password for a Kafka cluster.
* You have chosen the SASL mechanism to use, for example `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`.
* If TLS is enabled, you also need the `ca.crt` certificate file for the Kafka cluster.
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Create the certificate files as secrets in your chosen namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret -n <namespace> generic <kafka_auth_secret> \
  --from-file=ca.crt=caroot.pem \
  --from-literal=password="SecretPassword" \

>   --from-literal=saslType="SCRAM-SHA-512" \

Reviewer: I'd add a note that `saslType` can be one of `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`

  --from-literal=user="my-sasl-user"
----

> ** Use the key names `ca.crt`, `password`, and `sasl.mechanism`. Do not change them.

Reviewer: This note isn't technically correct for KafkaSource since we can reference different keys in the secret as described at line 97 [1]

```yaml
      user:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <secret-name>
          key: user
```

** If you want to use SASL with public CA certificates, you must use the `tls.enabled=true` flag, rather than the `ca.crt` argument, when creating the secret. For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret -n <namespace> generic <kafka_auth_secret> \
  --from-literal=tls.enabled=true \
  --from-literal=password="SecretPassword" \
  --from-literal=saslType="SCRAM-SHA-512" \
  --from-literal=user="my-sasl-user"

> ----

Reviewer: This is not needed for KafkaSource, example at line 97 shows how to enable TLS:
```yaml
    tls:
      enable: true
```

. Start editing the `KnativeKafka` custom resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit knativekafka
----

. Reference your secret and the namespace of the secret:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.serverless.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: KnativeKafka
metadata:
  namespace: knative-eventing
  name: knative-kafka
spec:
  channel:
    authSecretName: <kafka_auth_secret>
    authSecretNamespace: <kafka_auth_secret_namespace>
    bootstrapServers: <bootstrap_servers>
    enabled: true
  source:
    enabled: true

> ----

Reviewer: If the page is about Kafka source, why are we modifying the channel part?
This is already documented in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/modules/serverless-kafka-sasl-channels.adoc

+
[NOTE]
====
Make sure to specify the matching port in the bootstrap server.
====
+
For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.serverless.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: KnativeKafka
metadata:
  namespace: knative-eventing
  name: knative-kafka
spec:
  channel:
    authSecretName: scram-user
    authSecretNamespace: kafka
    bootstrapServers: eventing-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc:9093
    enabled: true
  source:
    enabled: true

> ----

Reviewer: Same here.

. Create or modify your Kafka source so that it contains the following `spec` configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1beta1
kind: KafkaSource
metadata:
  name: example-source
spec:
...
  net:
    sasl:
      enable: true
      user:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <secret-name>
          key: user
      password:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <secret-name>
          key: password
      saslType:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <secret-name>
          key: saslType
    tls:
      enable: true
      caCert:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <secret-name>

>           key: ca.crt

Reviewer: Since we use the `<kafka_auth_secret>` placeholder for the command `oc create secret -n <namespace> generic <kafka_auth_secret>` above, for consistency we should use the same here.

>           key: ca.crt

Reviewer: I'd add that `caCert` is not required when using a public cloud Kafka service like [Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/openshift-streams-for-apache-kafka)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/admin_guide/serverless-kafka-admin.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-kafka-sasl-source_{context}"]
= Configuring SASL authentication for Kafka sources

> _Simple Authentication and Security Layer_ (SASL) is used by Apache Kafka for authentication. If you use SASL authentication on your cluster, users must provide credentials to Knative for communicating with the Kafka cluster, otherwise events cannot be produced or consumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Simple Authentication and Security Layer_ (SASL) is used by Apache Kafka for authentication. When using the SASL authentication on a cluster, users must provide credentials to the Knative for communicating with the Kafka cluster; otherwise, events cannot produce or be consumed.
```

Author: I think the current version is better because it feels more "active" - also, this content is reused across a few different modules, so I'd prefer to keep it consistent

.Prerequisites

> * You have cluster or dedicated administrator permissions on {product-title}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have a cluster or dedicated administrator permissions on {product-title}.
```

Author: I don't think that this makes sense, it's not referring to "a cluster" but "cluster admin" or "dedicated admin" permissions

* The {ServerlessOperatorName}, Knative Eventing, and the `KnativeKafka` CR are installed on your {product-title} cluster.
* You have created a project or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {product-title}.
* You have a username and password for a Kafka cluster.

> * You have chosen the SASL mechanism to use, for example `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have chosen the SASL mechanism to use, for example, `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`.
```

* If TLS is enabled, you also need the `ca.crt` certificate file for the Kafka cluster.

> * Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

Reviewer 3: Just a minor nit. Shouldn't it be "You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)" ? Just a suggetions since all above sentences are "You have.."

.Procedure

> . Create the certificate files as secrets in your chosen namespace:

Reviewer 4: The [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#code-blocks-command-syntax-and-example-output) say to use an explicit "<verb> the following command" if a user is supposed to run a command, so maybe something like this:
```suggestion
. Create the certificate files as secrets in your chosen namespace by running the following command:
```

Author: I remember asking about this in Slack ages ago but I guess it was before there were guidelines on it 🙂 
This will need to be updated across basically all of our docs AFAIK because it wasn't always a requirement in the guidelines, and isn't used in any of the rest of our procedures, so I will open a Jira to follow up with this instead.

Author: Opened an issue for this to follow up https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVCOM-2129

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret -n <namespace> generic <kafka_auth_secret> \
  --from-file=ca.crt=caroot.pem \
  --from-literal=password="SecretPassword" \
  --from-literal=saslType="SCRAM-SHA-512" \ <1>
  --from-literal=user="my-sasl-user"
----
<1> The SASL type can be `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`.

. Create or modify your Kafka source so that it contains the following `spec` configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1beta1
kind: KafkaSource
metadata:
  name: example-source
spec:
...
  net:
    sasl:
      enable: true
      user:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <kafka_auth_secret>
          key: user
      password:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <kafka_auth_secret>
          key: password
      saslType:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <kafka_auth_secret>
          key: saslType
    tls:
      enable: true
      caCert: <1>
        secretKeyRef:
          name: <kafka_auth_secret>
          key: ca.crt
...
----

> <1> The `caCert` spec is not required if you are using a public cloud Kafka service, such as Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The `caCert` spec is not required if using a public cloud Kafka service, such as Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka.
```

Author: again I think the current version feels more active, leaving as is
